.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2026 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd July 17, 2026
.Dt LIBHSMP 3LIB
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libhsmp
.Nd AMD HSMP access library
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libhsmp
.In libhsmp.h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
library provides access to a curated set of the functions offered by the
Host System Management Port
.Pq HSMP
found in AMD Zen 3 and Zen 4
.Pq Family 19h
and Zen 5
.Pq Family 1ah
processors.
These functions provide telemetry such as the current socket power,
clock frequencies and DDR bandwidth utilisation, along with control over
the socket power limit and core boost limits.
.Pp
The set of available HSMP functions depends on the interface version that
the SMU firmware implements, and which can be retrieved with
.Xr libhsmp_interface_version 3HSMP .
Requests for a function that is not available on the running system fail
with
.Dv LIBHSMP_ERR_UNSUPPORTED .
.Pp
The library communicates with the HSMP via the
.Xr uhsmp 4D
driver, and its use requires the same privileges as opening the underlying
device nodes.
.Sh INTERFACES
The shared object
.Pa libhsmp.so.1
provides the interfaces defined below.
See
.Xr Intro 3
for additional information on shared object interfaces.
Functions are organised into categories that describe their purpose.
Individual functions are documented in their own manual pages.
.Ss Opening, Closing
The following routines are related to creating and releasing library handles.
To use any of the other functions in the library, a handle must be acquired
.Pq and subsequently released
by these functions.
.Fn libhsmp_ntargets
and
.Fn libhsmp_target_info
describe the HSMP targets that other functions may operate on.
.Bl -column -offset indent libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all
.It Sy libhsmp_init Ta Sy libhsmp_fini
.It Sy libhsmp_ntargets Ta Sy libhsmp_target_info
.El
.Ss Error Handling
The following routines are used to interrogate a library handle
.Po
previously initialised via a call to
.Sy libhsmp_init
.Pc ,
in order to determine whether an error occurred, and any associated reason
or error codes.
Error information stored in the handle is invalidated by any call to a
function other than those in this group.
.Bl -column -offset indent libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all
.It Sy libhsmp_err Ta Sy libhsmp_errmsg
.It Sy libhsmp_strerror Ta Sy libhsmp_syserr
.El
.Ss Versions
The following routines retrieve the version of the SMU firmware and of the
HSMP interface that it implements.
.Bl -column -offset indent libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all
.It Sy libhsmp_smu_version Ta Sy libhsmp_interface_version
.El
.Ss Socket Power
The following routines retrieve and control the power consumption of a
socket.
.Bl -column -offset indent libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all
.It Sy libhsmp_power Ta Sy libhsmp_power_limit
.It Sy libhsmp_power_limit_max Ta Sy libhsmp_power_limit_set
.El
.Ss Core Boost Limits
The following routines retrieve and control the maximum frequency to which
cores may boost.
.Bl -column -offset indent libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all
.It Sy libhsmp_boost_limit Ta Sy libhsmp_boost_limit_set
.It Sy libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all Ta
.El
.Ss Telemetry
The following routines retrieve telemetry from a socket.
.Bl -column -offset indent libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all
.It Sy libhsmp_prochot Ta Sy libhsmp_fclk_memclk
.It Sy libhsmp_cclk_limit Ta Sy libhsmp_c0_residency
.It Sy libhsmp_ddr_bandwidth Ta Sy libhsmp_freq_limit
.It Sy libhsmp_freq_src_str Ta
.El
.Sh LOCKING
Most functions operate on a handle in the form of a
.Vt "libhsmp_handle_t *" .
Unless otherwise indicated, the library does not provide any synchronisation
for different routines that are operating on the
.Em same
.Nm
library handle.
It is up to the caller to ensure that only a single thread is using a handle at
any given time.
Multiple threads may call
.Nm
library routines at the same time as long as each thread is using a different
handle.
.Sh ERRORS
When a library function that operates on a handle fails, the reason for the
failure is recorded in the handle and can be retrieved using the functions
described in
.Xr libhsmp_err 3HSMP .
.Fn libhsmp_init ,
which allocates a handle, instead reports these values through its
arguments, as described in
.Xr libhsmp_init 3HSMP .
.Pp
A message describing the failure is always available via
.Xr libhsmp_errmsg 3HSMP .
When a system
.Va errno
is associated with the failure it is also recorded, and
.Xr libhsmp_syserr 3HSMP
returns 0 otherwise.
The set of error codes is:
.Bl -tag -width Dv
.It Dv LIBHSMP_ERR_OK
No error has occurred.
.It Dv LIBHSMP_ERR_NO_MEM
A memory allocation failed.
.It Dv LIBHSMP_ERR_NO_DEVICE
No
.Xr uhsmp 4D
device was found.
HSMP is not available on this system.
.It Dv LIBHSMP_ERR_PRIVILEGE
The caller has insufficient privilege.
Access to the HSMP requires all privileges, and is only possible from the
global zone.
.It Dv LIBHSMP_ERR_INVALID_PARAM
A function parameter did not pass validation.
.It Dv LIBHSMP_ERR_BAD_TARGET
The requested target identifier is out of range for this system.
.It Dv LIBHSMP_ERR_UNSUPPORTED
The requested function is not supported by the HSMP interface version that
the firmware implements.
.It Dv LIBHSMP_ERR_BUSY
The SMU is busy and the operation may be retried.
.It Dv LIBHSMP_ERR_PREREQ
The firmware rejected the command because a prerequisite was not met.
.It Dv LIBHSMP_ERR_INVALID_ARGS
The firmware rejected the command's arguments.
.It Dv LIBHSMP_ERR_TIMEOUT
The SMU did not respond to the command in time.
.It Dv LIBHSMP_ERR_INTERNAL
An internal error occurred.
.El
.Sh ARCHITECTURE
The
.Nm
functions are only available on the
.Sy x86
architecture, on AMD processors that implement the HSMP.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Private
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe with exceptions .
See
.Sx LOCKING .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libhsmp_boost_limit 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_boost_limit_set 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_c0_residency 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_cclk_limit 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_ddr_bandwidth 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_err 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_errmsg 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_fclk_memclk 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_fini 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_freq_limit 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_freq_src_str 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_init 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_interface_version 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_ntargets 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_power 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_power_limit 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_power_limit_max 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_power_limit_set 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_prochot 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_smu_version 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_strerror 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_syserr 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_target_info 3HSMP ,
.Xr uhsmp 4D ,
.Xr hsmp 8
