.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2026 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd July 17, 2026
.Dt HSMP 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hsmp
.Nd interrogate and control the AMD Host System Management Port
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl s Ar socket
.Ar subcommand
.Op Ar args ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility retrieves telemetry from, and controls, the Host System Management
Port
.Pq HSMP
found in AMD Zen 3 and Zen 4
.Pq Family 19h
and Zen 5
.Pq Family 1ah
processors.
.Pp
Each subcommand operates on a processor socket.
By default, a subcommand is applied to every socket in the system in turn.
The
.Fl s
option restricts operation to a single socket, nominated by its zero-based
index.
.Pp
AMD describe the HSMP as a resource of an IO die, of which every
currently supported processor has one per socket.
Where output is per-socket, an
.Sy IOD
column identifies the IO die to which each row refers.
.Pp
Subcommands that produce tabular output accept common options to control
that output, shown as
.Ar output-options
in the subcommand list below:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl H
Omit the column headers.
.It Fl o Ar field Ns Oo , Ns Ar field Oc Ns ...
Select the fields that are displayed, as a comma-separated list.
The available fields for each subcommand are listed alongside it below,
and the special value
.Sy all
selects every field.
.It Fl p
Produce output in a machine-parseable format, with fields separated by a
colon.
This option requires
.Fl o ,
and
.Sy all
cannot be used.
.El
.Pp
The set of available HSMP functions depends on the interface version that
the SMU firmware implements, which can be viewed with the
.Cm version
subcommand.
A subcommand that requires a function which the firmware does not implement
fails with an explanatory message.
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility can only be used from the global zone.
Opening the underlying
.Xr uhsmp 4D
device nodes requires all privileges, and so the utility is in practice
restricted to the root user.
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width Cm
.It Cm version Op Ar output-options
Display the SMU firmware version and the HSMP interface version for each
socket.
The available output fields are
.Sy SOCKET , IOD , SMU
and
.Sy IFVER .
.It Cm power Op Ar output-options
Display the current power consumption, the current power limit and the
maximum settable power limit for each socket, in watts.
The available output fields are
.Sy SOCKET , IOD , POWER , LIMIT
and
.Sy MAX .
.It Cm set-power-limit Ar limit Ns Oo Cm W Ns | Ns Cm mW Oc
Set the socket power limit.
A bare number, or one with an
.Cm mW
suffix, is a whole number of milliwatts.
A number with a
.Cm W
suffix may have a fractional part.
The firmware clamps the requested value to the range that the platform
supports, and the resulting limit is displayed.
.It Cm cores Op Ar output-options
Display the cores in the system, along with the logical CPUs that each
core provides and its local APIC ID.
Local APIC IDs identify individual SMT threads rather than cores, and the
APIC ID shown is that of the core's lowest-numbered thread, which is the
identifier through which the HSMP addresses the core.
The available output fields are
.Sy SOCKET , CORE , APICID
and
.Sy CPUS .
.It Cm boost Oo Ar output-options Oc Op Ar cpu ...
Display the boost limit, in MHz, of each core, nominated by any of its
logical CPUs.
With no arguments, the limit of every core is displayed.
A boost limit applies to a whole core and is shared by all of its SMT
threads.
The available output fields are
.Sy SOCKET , CPUS
and
.Sy LIMIT .
.It Cm set-boost Oo Fl c Ar cpu Oc Ar mhz
Set the core boost limit, in MHz.
With
.Fl c ,
the limit is applied only to the core that provides the nominated logical
CPU, and the resulting limit is displayed.
Otherwise, the limit is applied to every core in the socket.
.It Cm prochot Op Ar output-options
Display whether the PROCHOT signal is asserted for each socket.
The available output fields are
.Sy SOCKET , IOD
and
.Sy PROCHOT .
.It Cm clocks Op Ar output-options
Display the current fabric clock and memory clock frequencies, along with
the current core clock frequency limit, in MHz.
The available output fields are
.Sy SOCKET , IOD , FCLK , MEMCLK
and
.Sy CCLKMAX .
.It Cm freq-limit Op Ar output-options
Display the current active frequency limit for each socket, in MHz, along
with the sources of that limit, such as the package power limit or an
asserted PROCHOT signal.
Retrieving the sources of the limit requires HSMP interface version 5 or
later.
On systems with an earlier interface version the limit is still displayed,
and the sources are shown as
.Qq unknown .
The available output fields are
.Sy SOCKET , IOD , LIMIT
and
.Sy SOURCES .
.It Cm residency Op Ar output-options
Display the average C0 residency of the cores in each socket, as a
percentage.
The available output fields are
.Sy SOCKET , IOD
and
.Sy C0 .
.It Cm ddr Op Ar output-options
Display the theoretical maximum DDR bandwidth, the current utilised
bandwidth and the utilisation percentage for each socket.
Bandwidth values are in Gbps.
This requires HSMP interface version 3 or later.
The available output fields are
.Sy SOCKET , IOD , MAX , UTIL
and
.Sy UTILPCT .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Sy Example 1
Display socket power information
.Bd -literal -offset 2
# hsmp power
SOCKET   IOD  POWER       LIMIT       MAX
0        0    153.482     200.000     240.000
.Ed
.Pp
.Sy Example 2
Set the power limit for socket 0 to 180 W
.Bd -literal -offset 2
# hsmp -s 0 set-power-limit 180W
socket 0: power limit set to 180.000 W
.Ed
.Pp
.Sy Example 3
Display the power consumption of each socket in a machine-parseable format
.Bd -literal -offset 2
# hsmp power -p -o socket,power
0:153.482
.Ed
.Sh ARCHITECTURE
The
.Nm
utility is only available on the
.Sy x86
architecture, on AMD processors that implement the HSMP.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
The command line interface of
.Nm
is
.Sy Evolving .
The output of
.Nm
is
.Sy Not-An-Interface
and may change at any time.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libhsmp 3LIB ,
.Xr uhsmp 4D
