.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2026 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd July 10, 2026
.Dt LIBHSMP_BOOST 3HSMP
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libhsmp_boost_limit ,
.Nm libhsmp_boost_limit_set ,
.Nm libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all
.Nd Retrieve and control core boost limits
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libhsmp
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In libhsmp.h
.Ft bool
.Fo libhsmp_boost_limit
.Fa "libhsmp_handle_t *handle"
.Fa "libhsmp_target_t targ"
.Fa "uint32_t apicid"
.Fa "uint32_t *limitp"
.Fc
.Ft bool
.Fo libhsmp_boost_limit_set
.Fa "libhsmp_handle_t *handle"
.Fa "libhsmp_target_t targ"
.Fa "uint32_t apicid"
.Fa "uint32_t limit"
.Fc
.Ft bool
.Fo libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all
.Fa "libhsmp_handle_t *handle"
.Fa "libhsmp_target_t targ"
.Fa "uint32_t limit"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions retrieve and control the maximum frequency to which
individual cores may boost, via the HSMP target
.Fa targ .
.Fa targ
must be less than the value returned by
.Xr libhsmp_ntargets 3HSMP .
Limits are expressed in MHz and must be no greater than 65535.
.Pp
Individual cores are identified by their local APIC ID,
.Fa apicid ,
which must be no greater than 65535.
The APIC ID for each logical CPU is available from the
.Sy apic_id
statistic in the
.Sy cpu_info
kstat.
Note that the
.Sy cpu_info
kstat is not a Committed interface.
.Pp
.Fn libhsmp_boost_limit
retrieves the current boost limit for the core with the given APIC ID.
.Pp
.Fn libhsmp_boost_limit_set
sets the boost limit for the core with the given APIC ID.
.Pp
.Fn libhsmp_boost_limit_set_all
sets the boost limit for every core served by the target.
.Pp
The firmware clamps a requested limit to the range that the processor
supports, and so the value subsequently reported by
.Fn libhsmp_boost_limit
may differ from the value requested.
.Pp
The boost limit is only one of several constraints on the frequency at
which a core runs.
The processor combines it with limits arising from other sources, such as
thermal and power conditions, and so a core may not reach its boost limit,
and remains subject to those other constraints regardless of the value set.
The constraints currently limiting frequency across a socket can be
retrieved with
.Xr libhsmp_freq_limit 3HSMP .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, these functions return
.Dv true ,
and
.Fn libhsmp_boost_limit
has updated the variable pointed to by
.Fa limitp .
Otherwise,
.Dv false
is returned.
.Sh ERRORS
When the functions defined in this page return
.Dv false ,
the reason for the failure is recorded in the library handle and can be
retrieved using the functions described in
.Xr libhsmp_err 3HSMP .
The full set of error codes is described in the
.Sy ERRORS
section of
.Xr libhsmp 3LIB .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Private
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libhsmp 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libhsmp_err 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_freq_limit 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_init 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_ntargets 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp 3LIB ,
.Xr kstat 8
