.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2026 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd July 10, 2026
.Dt LIBHSMP_INIT 3HSMP
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libhsmp_init ,
.Nm libhsmp_fini ,
.Nm libhsmp_ntargets ,
.Nm libhsmp_target_info
.Nd Initialise or finalise an HSMP library handle
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libhsmp
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In libhsmp.h
.Ft bool
.Fo libhsmp_init
.Fa "libhsmp_handle_t **handlep"
.Fa "libhsmp_err_t *errp"
.Fa "int32_t *syserrp"
.Fa "char *const errbuf"
.Fa "size_t errbuflen"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo libhsmp_fini
.Fa "libhsmp_handle_t *handle"
.Fc
.Ft uint32_t
.Fo libhsmp_ntargets
.Fa "const libhsmp_handle_t *handle"
.Fc
.Ft bool
.Fo libhsmp_target_info
.Fa "libhsmp_handle_t *handle"
.Fa "libhsmp_target_t targ"
.Fa "uint32_t *sockp"
.Fa "uint32_t *iodp"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn libhsmp_init
and
.Fn libhsmp_fini
respectively initialise and finalise a handle that can be subsequently
passed to other
.Xr libhsmp 3LIB
functions in order to interact with the AMD Host System Management Port
.Pq HSMP .
.Pp
A handle is initialised via a call to
.Fn libhsmp_init .
During initialisation, the library locates and opens the
.Xr uhsmp 4D
device node for each HSMP target in the system, and retrieves the HSMP
interface version that each target's firmware implements.
.Fa handlep
must point to a location that can hold the allocated library handle on
success.
The handle should be freed when it is no longer needed via a call to
.Fn libhsmp_fini .
.Pp
.Fa errp ,
.Fa syserrp
and
.Fa errbuf
point to variables that are populated on failure.
Any of them that are not desired by the caller may be set to
.Dv NULL .
If
.Fa errbuf
is non-NULL, then
.Fa errbuflen
must be set to the size of this buffer, and otherwise left as 0.
If provided, it is recommended that
.Fa errbuf
is at least as large as
.Dv LIBHSMP_ERR_LEN
or the returned message may be truncated.
The meanings of the returned values are:
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa errp
The error code associated with the failure, drawn from the set described
in the
.Sy ERRORS
section of
.Xr libhsmp 3LIB .
This value can be passed to
.Xr libhsmp_strerror 3HSMP
to obtain a string representation.
.It Fa syserrp
The
.Va errno
associated with the failure, if there is one, otherwise 0.
.It Fa errbuf
A NUL-terminated error message, suitable for display.
.El
.Pp
.Fn libhsmp_fini
is used to free a library handle previously allocated by
.Fn libhsmp_init .
.Pp
.Fn libhsmp_ntargets
returns the number of HSMP targets that the library found during
initialisation.
.Fn libhsmp_init
fails if no targets are present, and so this number is always at least 1.
Other library functions take a zero-based target identifier, of type
.Vt libhsmp_target_t ,
that must be less than this number.
.Pp
AMD describe the HSMP as a resource of an IO die.
Every processor that the library currently supports has one IO die per
socket, and so presents one HSMP target per socket.
.Fn libhsmp_target_info
reports the zero-based socket and IO die indices to which commands issued
against the target
.Fa targ
are despatched, in the variables pointed to by
.Fa sockp
and
.Fa iodp
respectively.
Either pointer may be
.Dv NULL
if the corresponding value is not required.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion,
.Fn libhsmp_init
returns
.Dv true
and
.Fa handlep
will have been updated.
Otherwise
.Dv false
is returned and the reason for the failure can be determined by inspecting
the values of
.Fa errp ,
.Fa syserrp
and
.Fa errbuf
as described above.
.Pp
.Fn libhsmp_ntargets
returns the number of HSMP targets.
.Pp
Upon successful completion,
.Fn libhsmp_target_info
returns
.Dv true ,
with the requested variables updated.
Otherwise,
.Dv false
is returned.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Sy Example 1
Allocating and finalising a library handle
.Pp
The following example shows how to allocate and finalise a library handle,
and how to output error information if it fails.
.Bd -literal -offset 2
#include <err.h>
#include <libhsmp.h>

int
main(void)
{
	char errmsg[LIBHSMP_ERR_LEN];
	libhsmp_handle_t *lhh;
	libhsmp_err_t lerr;
	int32_t serr;

	if (!libhsmp_init(&lhh, &lerr, &serr, errmsg, sizeof (errmsg))) {
		errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "libhsmp error: '%s' (%s / %s)",
		    errmsg, libhsmp_strerror(lerr), strerror(serr));
	}

	/* Use the handle here */

	libhsmp_fini(lhh);
}
.Ed
.Sh ERRORS
When
.Fn libhsmp_init
returns
.Dv false ,
the
.Fa syserrp
pointer
.Pq if not Dv NULL
is set to 0 when no system
.Va errno
is associated with the failure.
Otherwise, it is set to one of the errors that can be returned by the
.Xr open 2
and
.Xr ioctl 2
functions, or to one of the following:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EAGAIN
There is currently insufficient memory available to allocate the library
handle, although more may become available later.
.It Er ENOMEM
The system cannot allocate memory for the library handle.
.It Er EPERM
The caller has insufficient privileges to perform the operation.
.El
.Pp
When
.Fn libhsmp_target_info
returns
.Dv false ,
the reason for the failure is recorded in the library handle and can be
retrieved using the functions described in
.Xr libhsmp_err 3HSMP .
The only failure is a
.Fa targ
that is out of range, which is reported as
.Dv LIBHSMP_ERR_BAD_TARGET .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Private
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libhsmp 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ioctl 2 ,
.Xr open 2 ,
.Xr libhsmp_err 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_strerror 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp 3LIB ,
.Xr uhsmp 4D
