.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2026 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd July 10, 2026
.Dt LIBHSMP_POWER 3HSMP
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libhsmp_power ,
.Nm libhsmp_power_limit ,
.Nm libhsmp_power_limit_max ,
.Nm libhsmp_power_limit_set
.Nd Retrieve and control socket power
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libhsmp
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In libhsmp.h
.Ft bool
.Fo libhsmp_power
.Fa "libhsmp_handle_t *handle"
.Fa "libhsmp_target_t targ"
.Fa "uint32_t *powerp"
.Fc
.Ft bool
.Fo libhsmp_power_limit
.Fa "libhsmp_handle_t *handle"
.Fa "libhsmp_target_t targ"
.Fa "uint32_t *limitp"
.Fc
.Ft bool
.Fo libhsmp_power_limit_max
.Fa "libhsmp_handle_t *handle"
.Fa "libhsmp_target_t targ"
.Fa "uint32_t *limitp"
.Fc
.Ft bool
.Fo libhsmp_power_limit_set
.Fa "libhsmp_handle_t *handle"
.Fa "libhsmp_target_t targ"
.Fa "uint32_t limit"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions retrieve and control the power consumption of the socket
served by the HSMP target
.Fa targ .
.Fa targ
must be less than the value returned by
.Xr libhsmp_ntargets 3HSMP .
All power values are expressed in milliwatts.
.Pp
.Fn libhsmp_power
retrieves the current average power consumption of the socket.
.Pp
.Fn libhsmp_power_limit
retrieves the current socket power limit.
The firmware manages the socket so that its power consumption does not
exceed this limit.
.Pp
.Fn libhsmp_power_limit_max
retrieves the highest power limit that can be set for the socket.
.Pp
.Fn libhsmp_power_limit_set
sets the socket power limit to
.Fa limit .
The firmware clamps the requested value to the range that the platform
supports, and so the value subsequently reported by
.Fn libhsmp_power_limit
may differ from the value requested.
.Pp
The socket power limit set here is only one of several constraints on the
socket's power consumption.
The firmware combines limits from a number of sources, and so the value
set through this interface may not be the limit ultimately in effect.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, these functions return
.Dv true ,
and those that retrieve a value have updated the variable pointed to by
their final argument.
Otherwise,
.Dv false
is returned.
.Sh ERRORS
When the functions defined in this page return
.Dv false ,
the reason for the failure is recorded in the library handle and can be
retrieved using the functions described in
.Xr libhsmp_err 3HSMP .
The full set of error codes is described in the
.Sy ERRORS
section of
.Xr libhsmp 3LIB .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Private
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libhsmp 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libhsmp_err 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_init 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp_ntargets 3HSMP ,
.Xr libhsmp 3LIB
